# v2.4

This release introduces a strict mode for variables, new builtin, performance improvements, and better error messages; plus a potential breaking change

There are a number of new features in this release

### Breaking Changes:

* mkarray (`a` et al) no longer returns an error if the start and end ranges
  are the same. Instead it returns an array of 1 value.

### User Facing Changes:

* Strict variables now supported (like `set -u` in Bash). This will mean any
  variables passed that haven't been initialized beforehand will cause that
  pipeline to fail. Currently this is opt in, a future release of Murex will
  flip that and make it opt out. So take this opportunity to enable it in your
  `~/.murex_profile` and test your scripts. Enable this via `config`:
  ```
  config: set proc strict-vars true
  ```
  This feature was requested in [issue #380](https://github.com/lmorg/murex/issues/380).

* New builtin: `datetime`. This builtin allows you to convert date and/or time
  strings of one format into strings of another format. `datetime` is a
  supercharged alternative to the UNIX command `date` aimed at making scripting
  easier.

* mkarray (`a` et al) now supports dates. eg `[01-Jan-20..05-May-21]`. If no
  start nor end date appears then mkarray assumes range starts or ends at
  current date.

* `openagent` profile for `image` data types has been improved. Murex now
  better supports tmux and iTerm2.

* `runtime --config` now displays `FileRef` for every `set` as well as `define`,
  named `FileRefSet` and `FileRefDefine` respectively. So you can now easily
  trace where global config is being set and defined.
   
* Better error messages in the interactive terminal.

* Prompt now defaults to only displaying current directory rather than the full
  path. You can revert this change by adding your own prompt in `config`. eg:
  ```
  config: set shell prompt {
      out "{RESET}{YELLOW}${pwd_short} {RESET}» "
  }

  config: set shell prompt-multiline {
      let len = ${pwd_short -> wc -c} - 1
      printf "%${$len}s » " $linenum
  }
  ```

* Parser updated to better support multiline pipelines where the newline is
  escaped and a comment exists after [issue #379](https://github.com/lmorg/murex/issues/379).
  This only applies to shell scripts, the interactive terminal hasn't yet been
  updated to reflect this change.

* Fixed regression bugs with autocomplete parameters that affected some dynamic
  blocks.

* `readline` now caches syntax highlighting and hint text to improve the
  responsiveness of the interactive terminal. This is set to a hard limit of
  200 cached items however that will be a configurable metric in a future
  release. Also planned for the future is caching autocompletion suggestions.

* Loading message added for the default profile, ie the one that is compiled
  into and thus shipped with Murex.

* Fixed bug with `fid-list` and `jobs` where they were outputting the `p.Name`
  struct rather than `p.Name.String()`. This lead to the process name appearing
  garbled under some circumstances.

* `{BG-BLUE}` emitted the wrong ANSI escape code, this has been corrected.

* Several `readline` bug fixes.

### Non-User Facing / Maintenance Changes:

* Thread safe copying of parameters upon fork. The previous code never actually
  generated any race conditions and I don't think ever could. However it was
  ambiguous. This new code makes the copy more explicit and appears to have
  also brought some minor performance improvements in benchmarks too.

* Behavioural test framework has been refactored to make it easier to add new
  behavioural tests.

* Lots of new tests added.

* Updated documentation.

<hr>

Published: 09.12.2021 at 08:00

## See Also

* [ANSI Constants](../user-guide/ansi.md):
  Infixed constants that return ANSI escape sequences
* [Create JSON Array (`ja`)](../commands/ja.md):
  A sophisticated yet simply way to build a JSON array
* [Create New Array (`ta`)](../commands/ta.md):
  A sophisticated yet simple way to build an array of a user defined data-type
* [Date And Time Conversion (`datetime`)](../commands/datetime.md):
  A date and/or time conversion tool (like `printf` but for date and time values)
* [Define Handlers For "`open`" (`openagent`)](../commands/openagent.md):
  Creates a handler function for `open`
* [Display Running Functions (`fid-list`)](../commands/fid-list.md):
  Lists all running functions within the current Murex session
* [FileRef](../user-guide/fileref.md):
  How to track what code was loaded and from where
* [Modules And Packages](../user-guide/modules.md):
  An introduction to Murex modules and packages
* [Open File (`open`)](../commands/open.md):
  Open a file with a preferred handler
* [Profile Files](../user-guide/profile.md):
  A breakdown of the different files loaded on start up
* [Shell Configuration And Settings (`config`)](../commands/config.md):
  Query or define Murex runtime settings
* [Shell Runtime (`runtime`)](../commands/runtime.md):
  Returns runtime information on the internal state of Murex
* [Stream New List (`a`)](../commands/a.md):
  A sophisticated yet simple way to stream an array or list (mkarray)

<hr/>

This document was generated from [gen/changelog/v2.4_doc.yaml](https://github.com/lmorg/murex/blob/master/gen/changelog/v2.4_doc.yaml).